Our focus today is on two beautiful Christian qualities
that are married to each other, the go hand in hand,
faith and hope.
Why is it so important for you and I to strengthen our faith
in what we hope for?
Please open your Bible with me to Hebrews chapter 12
and I'd like you to focus on verse 1.
Of course, we know in the context in the previous chapter,
Hebrews chapter 11, the Apostle has just defined faith
and then went on to recount many examples of men and women
who exercised strong faith and kept their focus on their future hope.
And they did so throughout the course of their entire life, even to death.
But now, notice the exhortation that the Apostle builds on
as found in Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 1
and we'll also read the first part of verse 2.
So then, because we have such a great cloud of witnesses surrounding us,
let us also throw off every weight and the sin that easily entangles us
and let us run with endurance, the race that is set before us,
as we look intently at the chief agent and perfector of our faith, Jesus.
Now, in verse 1, Paul mentions the sin that easily entangles us.
What should we visualize?
Well, that Greek expression could help us to picture a runner in a race
who has too many clothes on.
I'm picturing a man who has instead of shorts on,
he has oversized sweatpants,
tennis shoes with his shoes unlaced,
how easy it would be for him to trip and fall
to be entangled in his own clothing and attire.
Well, that's the word picture that the Apostle Paul used to describe a danger that faces all of us,
including experienced Christians who have a record of faith that sin is a lack of faith.
For a newer Christian, it could be not developing the faith that we had at the beginning
after baptism, but for an experienced Christian,
that lack of faith could be a loss of once strong faith we had in the past.
To that latter point, you might notice in verse 1 that the Apostle Paul,
a pillar in the congregation, a man of faith, includes himself in the exhortation.
He says, let us throw off every weight, let us run with endurance.
By including himself, Paul was likely admitting his own inclination, his propensity,
to get easily entangled in episodes of momentary weakness of faith.
Well, that's a powerful lesson for all of us, isn't it?
All of us need to keep strengthening our faith.
What is more, the Bible makes it clear that if we get entangled in a momentary loss of faith,
we can recover, and we can recover quickly.
Notice this in an experience that the Apostle Peter had.
Open please with me to Matthew 14 and cast your eyes to verse 24.
Now visualize the scene.
It's early in the morning before dawn.
Peter and some of the disciples are struggling to row their boat in the sea of Galilee during a storm.
Suddenly they see Jesus walking on the sea.
In verse 26, when they catch sight of him, the Bible tells us they cried out in their fear.
Peter, those disciples, hearty, fishermen, manly men, cried out in fear.
Verse 27, Jesus tells them, take courage, it is I, do not be afraid.
Then what did Peter do?
Verse 28, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you over the waters.
Well, when Jesus told Peter to come, what did Peter do?
He got out of the boat and he started walking on the water toward Jesus.
Did that take faith? Indeed.
But soon after we know, as the account goes on to say,
Peter began to sink.
Why? Notice the opening of verse 30.
But looking at the wind storm, he became afraid.
When Peter lost his focus on Jesus, his faith wavered.
This was a momentary period of weak faith.
The same can happen to any of us, including experienced Christians.
The loss of focus can lead to a loss of faith.
Have you gone through or are going through some storms in your life?
The wind and the waves that were surrounding Peter as he walked on the water
could be compared to the trials and the temptations that we face in our dedicated service to Jehovah.
Thanks to our faith, you and I are doing something that for the majority seems impossible.
Having a clean standing in a dedicated relationship
in the last days of this difficult system of things.
But winds and waves are coming our way.
Perhaps it's unexpected illness for us or a close family member or friend.
Maybe it's the fear that comes from the economic pressures
that are upon many of our brothers and sisters,
not just in Venezuela, not just in Africa,
but in all parts of the earth where there's crisis in economies.
Or maybe it's the waves of persecution that come upon our brothers in all places,
not just Russia, perhaps right within the family.
Or what about adjustments that might affect our privileges of service?
You know, a new work assignment here at Bethel or in the field or in the congregation
or a change of assignment that takes us out of the comfort zone of special full-time service
could prove to be a storm for us that causes us to be afraid.
One brother who had his heart set on being a missionary found that after many years in missionary service,
he and his wife had to go home.
For the first time in my life, he says, I lost all sense of direction.
I had no goals. Nothing seemed important anymore.
What happened?
A temporary, momentary weakness and faith.
But now let's dwell further on Peter's experience as you look back at verse 30.
What was it specifically that caused Peter to sink?
Was it a big gust or a big wave?
No. It was his looking at the windstorm that caused him to become afraid.
It was his change in focus.
Likewise, if we lose our focus and dwell too much on our storms,
circumstances and our day-to-day living in this system of things,
we look at how powerful those storms are,
we could begin doubting that Jehovah will support us.
But now, notice what happens next in verse 30.
The Bible says, and when he started to sink, he cried out, Lord, save me.
What Peter did next after his momentary loss of faith is really a powerful lesson for all of us.
Peter quickly recovered.
Now, we know from what the Bible tells us that Peter was a capable swimmer.
His natural inclination could have been to swim back to the boat because he was sinking.
But he didn't do that. He didn't depend on himself.
He refocused on Jesus.
And he took Jesus outstretched hand.
Well, what's the lesson for all of us?
If we sense that our faith is ever weakening or starting to give way to fear,
we need to imitate Peter's example.
We can recover quickly.
We might look back at Hebrews 12 and verse 2.
Hebrews 12 and verse 2.
And notice how the Apostle Paul encouraging us to not get entangled in a lack of faith
says we need to look intently at Jesus.
Verse 3. Consider closely the one who has endured hostile speech from sinners
so that you may not get tired and give up.
Looking intently, considering closely, reminds us we need to refocus on Jesus.
What was it that Jesus that gave Jesus unbreakable faith, strong hope?
Well, that same account tells us that he looked ahead at the joy that was set before him.
We need to focus on our future blessings.
One of our watchtower articles said this.
Put yourself in the picture by writing down or making a drawing of what you hope to do
once God has removed this system of things.
Make a list of people whom you look forward to meeting when they're resurrected
and what you would like to discuss with them.
See these as God's promises, not to just mankind in general, but to you personally.
Jesus, we know, was convinced that the Bible is God's Word.
He diligently meditated on God's words, His precious promises.
We need to do the same as well.
Jesus taught us to pray for Holy Spirit.
We can ask Jehovah for more faith.
Jehovah will readily respond to such prayers.